and you're gonna understand that you
were put on this earth for a reason and
it wasn't a play [ __ ] World of
Warcraft
that's just a shame
okay so can you tell me what should I
call you for small I'm surprised that
you actually pronounce my username
correctly the first time because a lot
of people struggle with it
but you can call me John or Charo
whichever I prefer Joro I feel like I
know a lot of John's but I don't know a
whole lot of gyros and you seem like a
Joro to me oh yeah
so tell me a little bit Joro so tell me
a little bit about what we're gonna be
talking about today and how we can be
helpful to you oh I had nose
[Music]
I guess
you
trying to turn from
[Music]
the
maybe to like more useful like turn
gaming an aimless browsing to something
else because all my interests are
basically on the computer anyway ok
and because I have other things
available I have my exercise bike right
there and like all kinds of things are
like
within 100 meter radius so like what's
in a hundred meter radius
we got a really really nice like
outdoors running like track that goes
through like two kilometer radius in the
woods
okay oh we got like us would be called
like not an outdoor swimming pool but
like a indoor one okay
who's we there's light
well
my family okay like where I live so you
live with family who lives with you at
home
my parents okay
and okay so you have a lot of stuff
available to you but you don't seem to
take advantage of it yes and what I'm
hearing from you is that you'd like to
understand why that is and maybe start
changing that yeah okay let's go with
that okay you say let's go with that is
that what you were actually looking for
or is there something else
yes yes to the first part okay
anything else
mmm
that's a-ok
so tell me what-what would you like to
do
like how like concretely or like current
moment or like what do I want to be in
the future let's do all three oh boy
well I always wanted to be good at
something absolutely I also want to feel
fulfilled which I haven't had in a long
time
okay or fell flat in a long time I've
wanted to get into better shape okay
that's why I got the exercise bike
and
I want the career in something related
to electronics less computers but okay
that's that's it I guess that's it
that's funny man
uh-uh that's it that's it's like it's a
small thing yeah yeah so so what's
getting in the way of you are
accomplishing all of those things
me how that's a very zen answer what
does that mean
I mean
you
me as in
my thoughts okay I guess what does that
mean your thoughts
well for example today I
it's a curtain that we needed to get
groceries
I acknowledged this and I mean like that
yes I could go well not I thought that I
could go that going there would be easy
okay that I could do it
it's in my possibilities in my
capabilities to do it
but I proceeded to just stay and just
like still on in
I mean while I'm thinking like yeah it's
just you on it and eventually like it
just go away because I kind of gave up
on it okay so give me one moment so I'm
gonna pull twitch chat real quick and
I'm gonna ask you to draw up what I want
to know is do you want to talk about do
you want to approach this from a
neuroscience perspective a psychology
perspective or a spiritual perspective
because we can do all three and let's
see what twitch chat wants to
you
what do you think Jorah what do you want
[Music]
that had to pick Nero and psychology but
okay I'm I'm fine with all okay so
when was the last time you had a good
day
you
a good day
actually there was a
there's one day it was two weeks ago
it was
it's like everything I lined up like
I didn't have to do like I was alone at
home my mom was a Dean of the town my
dad was at work and
just flowed and like okay there's like
no there was no like
stops in what I was going to do that day
okay
very very important observation right so
what you're saying is that you went from
the first productive thing to the second
productive thing to the third productive
thing to the fourth yes if this okay yes
I'm the same way so the question becomes
which one of those things is the most
important
you
mmm
what do you think do you understand my
question I think
I might have forgot what I said okay
I think the
kourin part would be just
like that there's no interruptions in it
okay like excellent right
so when is the most critical
interruption
I know it's kind of a weird quite
hardened huh pardon so like it sort of
it read my mind question so I think like
the first thing that I want you to think
of is when you wake up in the morning
that's the most important interruption
right so you're kind of like the first
thing that you do in the day is going to
set the tone for the remainder of your
day
right so you're saying that like like
once you did one flick if you've done
nothing and you try to do something
that's really hard yeah if you've done
something is it easier or harder to do
something else
easier absolutely right so like if
you've done two things is it easy or
hard to do the third thing
easier most of their privacy at the time
right so if we think about the fourth
thing like at some point we're gonna hit
some kind of limit and we'll understand
what that is we're like the ten thing
may be hard
the eleven thing may be really hard the
twelfth thing may be really hard but the
second thing is easier than the first
one the third one is maybe about as easy
as the second one does that make sense
yes so let me get you what is the
critical thing
the first absolutely so I don't want you
to think about your inability to do so
when you look at your life you think
about okay like I am unable to do ten
things today I can't exercise on the
bike I don't use the walking path we
didn't talk some about career things
like that that's you and so what happens
at the end of the day like you feel bad
about yourself because you [ __ ] up ten
things there were a thousand things you
didn't do
first thing you need to understand is
that you have one battle to win every
day
that battle is the first one
so like if we look at strategically the
days that you've done a good job like
what was it it's just somehow you
magically so we're gonna forget about
two three four five six seven eight nine
and two something magical happened that
allowed you to do the first thing and
the cool thing is like once you do the
first thing it becomes easier to do
number two three and four so what we're
gonna try to figure out is how can we
structure your life so that like doing
stuff is easy for you instead of doing
stuff as hard for you
does that make sense yeah what I want to
start to get into now is like what is
the difference we're gonna define a
couple of terms okay okay what is
motivation
[Music]
how are we going to define motivation
and twitchchat can help I mean for me it
kind of blends in together with
willpower some wife okay let's talk
about that so blends together so define
motivation for me
okay so feral cat is saying what keeps
you doing tasks even if you don't want
to but need to
I'd say like the mmm like the source of
energy that you used to push through
things okay so let me ask you something
if I need to use the restroom and I go
and use the restroom would you say that
that is motivation
would you say I'm motivated to use the
rest yes yes okay if I need to use the
restroom and I don't use the restroom
what would you call that
he do you see okay that's good but in
terms of language like so the first
thing that I want people to understand
is like motivation is what we're
naturally inclined to do right like
that's that's what it means
motivation is an internal drive that is
pushing us in a particular direction
like like if I want to if I'm hungry and
I have a choice between a hamburger and
a salad like what am i motivated towards
eating
like what do you think
I guess the hamburger probably right so
I want you guys to understand that like
motivation is like when you did numbers
two three four and five
you felt motivated to do them that day
right
you didn't actually have to try very
hard to do numbers two three four and
five you felt like doing it yeah so
motivation comes from within and
willpower is actually the exact opposite
what is willpower
you
conscious effort conscious effort yes to
do what
they do the thing you weren't motivated
to do absolutely
right
so now we've been a couple of different
options we can increase your willpower
or we can cultivate your motivation
those are two different things do you
understand that jor oh yeah oh yeah
what are you thinking you look like
you're thinking a lot
yeah
I'm thinking which one is more
beneficial yeah so we'll get to that
right which one do you think is more
beneficial
I mean we
with the motivation part if I have if I
get that first step then in that case it
would be
better but with willpower it would be
easier to get to the first step
sometimes yeah absolutely so we're gonna
talk about both of those now we're gonna
talk about a couple of other things
what is discipline
so cruel yes okay so that's very good
self-rule implies that there is a part
of you that so self rule implies that
you are not one thing right your mind is
actually a couple of different things
that are fighting against each other so
the way that we're gonna try to help you
out is by understanding what those
different things are and what are the
ways that you can like end up creating
action so one way is motivation one ways
willpower
so a lot of gamers feel like they're not
motivated do you feel like you're not
motivated
you
when the first thing that came to mind
is yes God
what's the second thing that came to
mind my friend
you
kind of
so it's like first first thing I thought
was yes but then it started to like okay
am i so let's think about this for a
second when you when you had this
thought that like you need to get
groceries from the grocery store you
call that a lack of motivation right
what do you do instead
they at home yeah and do what be
specific
they under computer yeah and do what on
the computer play a video game watch
YouTube what is it
cut
oh okay so the first thing I want you
understand is that like what is that
what is it that keeps you at the
computer
keeps me yeah is it motivation is it
discipline is it willpower
is it laziness
I think it's laziness what is yeah so
we're gonna redefine laziness right
because all gamers think they're lazy
you're not lazy you're motivated to stay
at the computer that's what I want you
to understand you have a natural
internal Drive that is keeping you in
your computer chair right that's why we
have to start by defining things you
have a desire to sit in the computer
chair you have a you're motivated to
actually sit in the computer chair so
the first thing that people need to
understand is that you don't lack
motivation your motivation is just in a
direction that you don't want it to go
does that make sense and if we really
think about how stuck you are cuz you
sound stuck to me like if I had to
diagnose you with its stuckness very
much so if we think about like stuckness
is actually hard to attain because
there's a certain like stubbornness it
requires a lot of energy to move you
away from this place
which tells me that there's a lot of
gravity pulling you towards this place
does that make sense let you have to
think about like the mind sort of
mathematically and if I like so for
example I love my wife I'm motivated
towards being in the marriage so it's
gonna take a lot for me to like think
about divorcing her does that make sense
yes like the harder it is to pull you
away from something the more motivated
you are towards it so the first thing
we've got to understand is that like
it's not that you're lazy it's actually
that some part of you is highly
motivated to stay where you are right
now and until we like understand and
realize what that is and how it works
it's gonna be really hard to move
forward you can use willpower and by the
way I would define discipline is a
consistent use of willpower over time
does that make sense yeah okay
what's a habit
you
use of discipline nope actually the
exact opposite so when something becomes
a habit
motivation discipline and willpower are
all separate from habit so habit is
something that you do automatically
without being motivated without being
disciplined without using willpower it's
a habit right so like just as an example
like when I use the restroom I wipe
myself right that's like it's habitual
when I brush my teeth I have a
particular pattern when I wake up in the
morning I brush my teeth before I go to
bed I brush my teeth it's a habit it
doesn't require willpower for me to do
or not much does that make sense
so once we get to the place of habit
things are gonna become relatively easy
because it's sort of like autopilot ok
so now I'm gonna ask you what do you
think it is where do you think
motivation comes from
where does motivation come from
um
through the need of something okay
that's part of it so let me ask you this
what do you need to have a job in
computers right now
a job yeah but none necessarily why do
you need a job
rather have a job and get-get disposable
income okay
eventually move up but okay so so hold
on let's let's let me understand you'd
rather have a job but is does that mean
you need a job
well No
okay yes hold on let's think about this
for a second do you need a job
you
yes why
what's going to change tomorrow if you
have a job
you
depending on the job I'm I
have a type of shirt routine so what's
the consequence tomorrow if you don't
have a job
a job yeah okay so that's like so we're
gonna replace the word job with the word
yacht you know what a yacht is yes okay
I need a yacht do you agree or disagree
yes
I agree you I need a yacht I need a
yacht the way that you need a job which
means that I'd rather have a yacht than
not having yacht the consequence for me
not having a yacht tomorrow's that I
don't have a yacht
right do you have a place to sleep
tonight tomorrow if you don't have a job
yeah do you have food to eat tomorrow if
you don't have a job
yeah you have something to occupy your
time that you find mentally engaging if
you don't have a job
yeah why do you need a job I'm confused
to get a sense of fulfillment okay
yeah so like is that something that's
gonna happen tomorrow
no okay necessarily when does
fulfillment happen
you
sometimes when I do things ok right so I
want you to understand what's going on
in your brain Joro
your brain is way smarter than you are
your brain recognizes what you need
right your brain says hey money we need
some food right now our blood sugar is
low why don't you go eat something hey
buddy we need a toilet right now we have
a bladder full of urine let's go take a
piss your your brain is telling you hey
buddy we don't need a job because we
have everything that we need right here
what do we need nothing you don't need a
job and then what happens is like
there's a part of your brain that weighs
how important things are like so like
your brain is always like trying to
weigh different things against it it's
like different options right like do I
wanna so for example like this bottle of
water like I can be thirsty and the
thirstier I get the more that I want to
drink the bottle of water if the bottle
of water is outside of my room I'm gonna
have to be thirstier for me to walk
outside and get my bottle does that make
sense like a little balloon exactly
availability right so like when we think
about behavior in motivation the
availability of things the internal
drive towards things and the expected
reward all factor into whether I do
something or I don't do something yeah
like if I
if if the if I walked outside and I
didn't know where to find water like I'm
not gonna go down the street and start
knocking on random people's houses and
ask them for a glass of water why not
because the expected reward is really
low right like it's stupid like there is
no way there's no reason why I would
walk down the street and ask random
people for glasses of water because the
expected reward is like so hard to
fathom does that make sense
yeah yeah so what do you think the
expected reward of finding fulfillment
is like how do you think your brain
computes that
you
not sure absolutely either is your
[ __ ] brain your brain doesn't know
what the [ __ ] that means
like what is full like you don't even
know
so how you're here you are yours kind of
telling yourself hey brain we need
fulfillment in your brains like your
brain like figures a lot of stuff out
for you
and your brain is like I don't know and
then so then you wake up and then this
is the part of your mind that says hey
brain we need to do something today and
then your brain says why do we need to
do something well we need a job for
independence but he's like you don't
need independence like you've got
independence right here you can sleep
when you want to you can eat when you
want to you can play games when you want
to this is actually the perfect
lifestyle and then you say no brain but
we need fulfillment and your brain says
what is that and then you say I don't
know and the brain says well if you
don't know what it is then like why do
we need it like why would you want
fulfillment when we can like play like
what do you play
recently Wow okay so like why do you
need fulfillment when you can like do
raids on Wow
like what like the brain understands in
the brain understands who allow is there
like this is Wow like this is fun we can
do this or we can go knocking on random
doors to find fulfillment because how do
you find fulfillment right so it's like
it's like it's like where can I dig for
gold and find gold like that's why brain
is gonna be like that's a [ __ ] waste
of our time finding fulfillment is a
[ __ ] waste of our time
okay mm-hmm so the first thing that I
want you to understand Joro is that the
reason that you're not doing any of
these things is because you don't need
to
why do you want to be healthy what does
that mean
to
[Music]
feel better do you feel bad better about
myself I mean not all the time
Yeah right your brain is like you start
feeling bad and then you tell your brain
you're like hey brain we need to go
exercise so that we can feel good about
ourselves our brain says you know what's
better than walking back to like I'm at
my office right now and my brain says
you know what's better than walking -
you're off walking back to your house
which is three miles away for a glass of
water is walking right outside or
grabbing this bottle because you can
walk three miles away for a glass of
water or you can drink the water in
front of you
so you tell your brain I want to
exercise and the brain says why should
you do all that effort to feel better
when I can make you feel better you
playing Wow
like why do you want like you can just
play wow and like if you get that robe
dagger that you want you're gonna feel
great your brain is like that's true why
I don't understand why you're trying to
make my life hard that's what your brain
is saying
right yeah what do you need
what are you motivated towards what do
you need Jorah roll all right Matt all
right right now I don't know yeah I'll
tell you the answer is [ __ ] nothing
you don't need anything
what do you need tonight
I'm like kind of already age yeah so I
sound like you're in Europe or something
Scandinavia I don't know where are you
Finland okay so you already ate so like
what are you going to do tomorrow
you
wake up ma'am
wake up eat
to the dishes and income here yeah okay
why do you do the dishes
so try to okay now we're getting
somewhere right because for a moment I
got excited because I thought maybe if
you didn't do the dishes no one would
and that's why we see why you do the
dishes
but it sounds like someone does the
dishes if you don't do them that's
that's correct right and that's why you
try to do the dishes you try because you
tell your broom you're like hey brain
let's do these dishes and then your
brain says why the [ __ ] do you should we
do these dishes we don't do them someone
else is going to do them why are you
making me walk five miles for a glass of
water when we don't have to we don't
have to do the dishes and the dishes
will do themselves
your brain is an incredibly efficient
organ incredibly efficient you're trying
to just it's like you're just like hey
brain like let's just let's do all of
these really difficult things that are
completely useless and your brain is
like why the what are you talking about
man
I don't have to do dishes all I have to
do is go and play Wow like I don't
understand why you're trying to like
ruin this lifestyle that I've built for
you you enjoy whitening we hang out so
now we're gonna come to earlier I asked
you like what what do you want right and
you said I want a career you want to
exercise you want to move out one day
those are desires
you understand that so we're gonna talk
for a second about desires and I know
you guys were asking for psychology so
we'll get to that and I mean I'm sorry
I'm doing spirituality in neuroscience
because that's what I feel like doing
today yeah but what is it desire where
does it come from
you
so like what's an example of a desire
one thing something absolutely so what's
something that you want it's like I want
a young money right we're talking about
yachts and twitch at once yachts - where
does the desire of wanting a yacht come
from where does that originate
you
it's a thing of value yes it is a thing
of value where does the desire for a
yacht originate when did I first desire
to have a yacht
it's kind of a weird question yeah it's
really basic but it's really hard
okay so we've got we've got an answer
from lucky death which is this when I
saw someone have one so I'll give you
guys the answer right so let's think
about it this way have you guys ever
been walking down the street and you
smell something like the smell of like
someone frying something or like the
smell of grilled meat and you're like
man I want to eat that
that ever happened to you where you
smell something cooking and you're like
that's up yes sounds delicious I want to
eat that
so where does that desire come from yeah
like cookies if you're baking cookies
right where does that desire come from
where does it originate ah driving past
restaurants okay so so like when you're
driving past a restaurant or you smell
something where is that desire
originating from this is really
important to understand
hunger is incorrect
doesn't originate from hunger
you
okay what do you think Jorah well if
in hunger they need this in the form of
me so yeah so hunger comes from within
so we're gonna talk about hunger in a
second right but a desire to satisfy
your hunger in a particular way is
separate from the feeling of hunger you
with me
okay so where does where does my desire
originate from
okay
are you are you looking at to a chat
look have you open on my other
okay look at it look at it scroll
through it and then let me know what you
think sounds sounds good we're going to
make this a group session today
you
right just the experience of having it
okay that's one that's one place have I
ever owned a yacht though
No ah right so it can't just be the
experience of having it so like this is
the thing like to twitch at you Joro I
think the biggest problem that people
have is they don't understand how this
[ __ ] stuff works like what is the
difference between motivation desire
willpower discipline habit
where do desires come from why do I want
to do something one day and I don't want
to do something the other way like you
guys have to understand how this stuff
works and it works it's like it's like
math its scientific so you're absolutely
correct that sometimes a desire comes
from a memory that's one of the origins
of desire right because if I've eaten a
chocolate-chip cookie once I can
remember what that tasted like and I can
want one again but in the case of a
yacht I've never had a yacht but I still
want one when
let me put it this way you know there
are there are people in like Papua New
Guinea who are like tribes that have not
like interacted with civilization dead
right like these Aboriginal people do
they want yachts
maybe no they don't because they don't
know what a [ __ ] yacht is
okay okay so like
when do they when can one day the
aboriginal person like what has to
happen for the aborigine to want to yah
to know it exists and how does that
happen
Susy absolutely right so now I'm gonna
go through twitch chat and I'm gonna
show you guys something okay so digital
dude says when I saw other people had a
yacht
yes cookies how do we want cookies
right
one person says outside sense of smell
wanting something that you know you
don't have past memories
okay you see it with your eyes
so where do desires come from
you
when was the first time that someone
wanted a chocolate-chip cookie like I
imagine like there's a five-year-old kid
what has to happen for them to want a
chocolate-chip cookie
sure absolutely right or smell it
or taste it like I have a two-year-old
and she doesn't want things until I put
them in her mouth so like if I give her
a bite of chocolate of cookie she's like
oh that's delicious can I have more but
she doesn't want it until she has a
sensory experience of it
so the first didn't understand is that
desires come from the census the yogi
said that the India's which are the
sense organs are the origin of desire so
you cannot have a desire without a
sensory experience or a memory of a
sensory experience but the root of
desire comes from your senses so I think
you are and do desires so the other
thing about desires is that they're not
powerful motivators because desires like
availability is like very very important
for desires to affect our motivation
like the simplest way to put it is like
I will eat a freshly baked chocolate
chip cookie every day
why don't I eat freshly baked chocolate
chip cookies every day Joro
cuz you don't have them everyday right
and there there are a lot of work to
make I will put a freshly baked
chocolate chip cookie made from scratch
in front of me every day I will probably
eat it but even though I want to eat the
chocolate chip cookie it doesn't affect
my motivation enough to like bake them
every day
does that make sense sir yeah so then
the question becomes if our desires are
not like a good source of motivation
what is a good source of motivation like
if I can't even motivate myself to do
something enjoyable like eat like I'm
not even willing like even though a
chocolate-chip cookie is good why do I
even though it brings me pleasure why do
I not like get up off my ass and do it
like it's a positive reward right you
with me but it's hard to do so let me
give you another example like what is
what is the one of the most like give me
some examples of some of the most
unpleasant stuff that you've done
I've done or experienced that you've
done
you
I mean does pain count like
physical like actual like something that
going through or so so is there any pain
that you've undergone that you would do
again
like have you ever experienced yeah it
pain in your life that if you had to go
back in time and you could choose to do
it or not do it you would choose to do
it again
yes give me an example
you
it's like on second thought maybe not
okay
is anything ever unpleasant happened to
you that if you could go back in time
you would choose to do that again
yeah like what
I got a spinal fluid like taken out look
like with a needle of course unpleasant
yeah why would you do it again
as it helped me get a
okay why is that important
because otherwise I wouldn't have known
why is it important to know
because it's not nice to know
okay nice to not know yeah so I get that
in in theory okay so let me put a let me
put it to you this way so a couple weeks
ago my kid was sick and she threw up on
me do you think that I like being thrown
up on
do you think I regret her throwing up on
me
it's kind of a weird question right
maybe yeah so like I didn't want it to
happen but if I had to do it again I
would absolutely let let her throw up on
me again right like I was holding her I
was rocking her to sleep and she threw
up on me so if I had to go back in time
I would choose it again
why
you
I mean what would be the other option
yeah so so okay yeah so touch 20:21 part
it looks like I lost you guys so like
sometimes in life we do unpleasant
things right we do things that like so
if we think about a cookie the reward
from that cookie is like a positive
thing like it's a pleasant thing yeah
and even though the outcome is positive
we still can't find the motivation to do
it what I'm trying to suggest is that
sometimes we do things that are actually
like negative rewards and we're able to
find the energy or motivation to do it
do you have siblings Europe yes - how
old are they uh two and four years older
than me okay so let me ask you this if I
pointed a gun at you Jorah what would
you do run absolutely if I pointed a gun
at your sibling what would you do
problem
like try to help them out of this
situation
why what's different a gun is a gun why
don't you run away
because an important
thing is on the line absolutely
absolutely right
so now we get to the crux of it which is
what matters to you Jorah
you
my life
okay
I think that makes sense what else
matters to you
close relationships okay are any of
those in jeopardy
you
no so Joro you're a pretty thoughtful
guy so I think you think a lot before
you answer which is fantastic at the
same time I think the basic problem that
you have is that everything that met
like there's nothing that matters to you
that coincides with what you want like
so you want to move out of the house you
want to get a good job but you don't you
know it doesn't matter to you like
you're not willing to put yourself in
the path of a gun
for any of those things
does that make sense good
so like the problem here is that like
you're willing to it's hard enough to to
bake cookies just to eat a cookie even
though that's a positive reward but real
strength comes not from desires but from
values desires come from our indriyas or
our sense organs they come from the
outside values like if we think about
like why you would try to help out your
siblings if a gun was pointed at them
that has nothing to do with the census
in your relationship with your your
siblings is not like it's not like one
day you saw them like you see them and
then you kind of like know who they are
but your your relationship with them is
not like based on an isolated sensory
experience in fact like if you think
about love love is not like it doesn't
come from the inner ears it doesn't come
from the sense organs
where d where does love come from
you
like mathematically
where do you feel love
you
my brain okay yeah that's a scientific
answer the answer I'm looking for is
like within right there's some feeling
right yeah yeah it's like like so if we
think about the indriyas the indriyas or
the way in which the outside world
enters us and those are not a good
that's where desires come from they come
from the outside world but values come
from within and values are what can
overcome all of the negative stuff like
I would walk and knock on every door in
my neighborhood if my daughter was
thirsty and I had no water
I would do that in a heartbeat
right if I if I ran out of water and she
like hadn't had anything to drink for 24
hours then I would go and do that so I
think your basic problem Joro is that
you don't have anything to care about
you don't care about it you want stuff
but you don't care
it doesn't mean anything to you
because your needs are met
what are you feeling right now
you
a chair
I can't tell because of your glasses but
are you tearing up
maybe
slightly
so what are you feeling tell me what you
feel in your body it started when I said
you don't care about anything
you
I don't know if it's
[Music]
it's guilt or shame yeah
what are you ashamed of
you
look at me Jorah
what are you shamed up
you
kind of myself yeah
you know what what if I had to guess
what was in your mind right now the best
word I can think of is everything
everything
how did you get to be this way
you
when did this happen to you
how long have you felt this way
you
because for a while yeah
it's been so long since like I would
even guess that you don't even really
remember what it feels like to not feel
like this it's been so long and you've
been stuck for a really long time and
you don't know how to get out
you
we're gonna help you twitch ad and I are
gonna help you do you believe you can be
helped
really
so some time ago you said it's been a
long time since I felt like I had
purpose in my life
when was the last time you remember
having purpose in your life
you
kantham remember okay
so you have a lot of work
to do Jorah
right
yeah and it's got to start with
reflection it's got to start with
understanding yourself it's got to
understand with what the [ __ ] do you
want to do with your life
right the basic problem here is that you
have no reason to get on the exercise
bike
you have no reason to go out and walk
you have no reason to go get groceries
so you really need to spend some time
thinking about like what do you want
like what what do you want to be like
why why get a job
you
so jor-el I think your most basic
problem is I asked you what do you care
what matters to you in life do you
remember what your answer was
it was I guess myself and that's the
problem
right so this is the one thing that I
just love about gamers is you [ __ ]
guys will do anything for anyone else
if someone asks you for help like I am
like 99% sure Giroud that if I was in
Finland and I was stranded and I sent
you a text message and I said hey jor-el
can you come help me out you would drop
whatever you were doing and come and
help me
there is no doubt in my mind that you
would do that I can tell I can tell just
by looking at you
and I think the basic problem here is
that like you feel shame and guilt for
yourself and you feel like you don't
have you're not worth a whole lot
because you haven't done a whole lot so
you're not worth helping
but somehow we have to connect to that
part of you that is like good and like
helps people like you know get their
gear and Wow
right
because like I think you're a good
person and Wow like
let's you be a good person and the
problem that I see is that like I don't
see an opportunity in your life for you
to be a good person
so it's got to start there
you've got to stop living for yourself
and start living for something else for
someone that you love or people who need
your help
you
right so I ate a [ __ ] salad for lunch
I don't like salads
but I'm getting old and I have kids and
I have to be around like I want to watch
them graduate like I'm not gonna eat a
salad I'm gonna eat a [ __ ] quesadilla
but Mike because of my kids I'm gonna
eat a salad so you're talking about
motivation we're talking about willpower
talking about discipline we're talking
about desire what we're not talking
about is Dharma Dharma is the son script
word for duty or responsibility and you
can we can spend as much time as we want
to helping you psychologically by
talking about your shame and stuff like
that and we can do that if you guys want
but I think the basic problem here is
that you don't have a reason to get on
the exercise bike
so this is what I want you to imagine I
don't know if this is gonna work or not
because I don't know you that well but
jor-el I want you to understand that
like you're an individual and that in
your life they're going to be people
that you meet and that someday like the
people that you meet are gonna need your
help you don't know who it's gonna be
you don't know when it's gonna be
that there are people out there that in
the grand scheme of time are completely
irrelevant but that one day you're gonna
be walking down the street and someone
is about to step in front of a car and
you're gonna like pull them back onto
the sidewalk so they don't get hit this
kind of random [ __ ] is gonna happen
someone's gonna be hungry someone's
gonna lose their car keys someone's
gonna need to use your phone that the
world exists in is full of humans and
you need to help them because if you
don't pull that person off off the
street they're gonna get hit by a car
and the problem is that like you need to
prepare yourself for those moments
you don't know what kind of help you
need to provide you don't know when it's
gonna be or who it's gonna be but you
have to prepare yourself as I do believe
that there are some people in this world
only you can help
so that make sense so how are you gonna
prepare
you
I'll tell you
so you're going to wake up tomorrow
morning
you're gonna go for a walk
that's how it starts
the first thing you do take a piss brush
your teeth before you eat anything go
for a walk
if you eat first thing in the morning
grab something and then take it with you
eat outside how cold is it is it really
cold
okay okay I like cold you're gonna start
by doing that
you going to do that tomorrow
okay the other thing that I want you to
do is message me on discord
after you do it tell me before you leave
and when you get back I may be offline
but message me anyway and what I'm gonna
do on Sunday I'm gonna stream again on
Sunday and I'm either going to praise or
shame you in front of the Internet
I'm gonna say Joro I got a message from
Joro he went for his [ __ ] walk
and then you're gonna do the next thing
and you're gonna understand that you
were put on this earth for a reason and
it wasn't a play [ __ ] World of
Warcraft that's just a shame
the problem here is that you don't
realize like the biggest problem here
Joro is that you think you're worthless
like there's no point in doing anything
if you're worthless but if you actually
have the capacity to help people and
make a difference like you've got to
you know like you can't stop a gun if
you're made of paper like there's no
point but you have flesh and blood and
bone which means that you can step in
front of a gun and you can like save
your your siblings you can do that if
you're made of paper it doesn't [ __ ]
matter right now the problem is you
think you're made of paper you don't
think you can make a difference that's
your problem
second problem is you don't know what
you want we talked about desires but
like you don't know what you care about
like what do you care about
right so this is like we have this
exercise in discord which i think is
brilliant I don't know if you guys have
read this stuff but like can I just read
this for a second I want to read some of
the stuff to you guys this stuff is
great
oh you posted beautiful
Jerome Oni this is you yeah okay now
we're talking okay you ready
jor oh yeah okay we're gonna talk about
this oh ma what is wrong with the world
so good job Joro dude this is [ __ ]
fantastic there's an increased amount of
misinformation in the modern world which
causes people to make misinformed
decisions and have long lasting effects
on themselves and sometimes many others
related to this misinformation as
people's lack of purpose being drawn
into bubbles of comfort and believing in
conspiracy theories without thinking
about them sound like anyone you know
Joro bubbles of comfort and lacking
purpose
that sound familiar buddy yeah people
fight over each other's political views
and religious beliefs which is in my
opinion not a fight worth having society
is not caught up with the technology of
or social climate copyright Roz's
screwing companies and artists over the
security and the privacy of civilians
has worsened in the online age even
though there are very simple fixes to
many of the problems only to be declined
by incompetence or greed
the way media portrays so many things
violence sexuality body economy
technology incorrectly is harmful to
younger adults and even children
companies use every way they can to get
into a consumers pocket oftentimes even
taking immoral or illegal means as well
public health care is a joke in many
countries with long queue times and
insane costs causing even more people to
avoid professional health care entirely
mental health isn't taking serious isn't
taken seriously do you take your mental
health seriously
yeah I've been in therapy for six years
okay not sleeping is seen as bragging
rights
I stayed up all night playing Wow
humanity is not taking enough action to
prevent or slow down climate change in
global warming in some even deciding to
deny it and not believe the overwhelming
evidence that is presented to them comes
back to misinformation right the ocean
is filled with plastic not literally so
many species have already gone extinct
thanks to pollution and bad recycling
there's still Wars being fought people
are still forced to leave their home
countries due to conflict or corrupt
governments threatening their well-being
lives and often leaving many people to
their own devices and a possible
eventual death okay Joro so now comes
the last question what are you gonna do
about it
this when I read this that when I read
this I think that the world there's so
many problems that are so big that it
can't be fixed and you know why these
problems seem so big
because people like you are [ __ ]
sitting at home playing wow it's not a
joke
I mean I meant it to be funny and also
harsh right now so I think that there's
something my sense is that this is this
is like there's something here that you
can actually do I don't know if you can
bring extinct species back to life I
don't know if you can fix healthcare
that sounds like a very different
trajectory but I do think there's
something about misinformation and
misinformed decisions that you can over
the course of the next year actually do
what do you think
you
yeah yeah right and if you don't do it
who's going to do it
you
you leave it up to [ __ ] twitch at the
chat is gonna do it can we count on baby
maybe I mean it's either either somebody
else or most likely nobody yeah
right so Mahatma Gandhi said be the
change that you want to see in the world
like people quote that [ __ ] all the time
but I think like that's like a very
positive way of saying if you don't do
it no one will
like I got into this because I saw that
there are a lot of mental health there
gamers are struggling with their mental
health people don't know what what to do
right so like I woke up one day and I
said I'm gonna start talking to gamers
over the Internet and my lawyer said you
could get sued
because someone is gonna think that this
is therapy and you don't have a
doctor-patient relationship and one day
someone is going to kill themselves and
their family's going to see you because
you were pretending to be a doctor they
said that this would be easier if you
actually weren't a medical professional
because you have a license and you have
obligations but if I don't do it who is
you
right
like it's Friday on November 15th 423 in
in Eastern Time
and like you're stuck
if I don't talk to you right now Joro
who's going to talk to you
like it's me that's it right when I said
one day you're gonna walk down the
street and someone is about to step in
front of a car and if you're not there
to save them no one else will be you're
that person for me I'm walking down the
street and I see you and I see you
stepping in front of a car and if I
don't help you no one else will and it's
Friday at 4 p.m. I'm not working I'm not
with my kids right now they're getting
home from school I want to be with them
I want to play with them for a couple of
hours you know why I want to play with
them for a couple of hours so that four
hours from now when I want to play dota
I can do so with a clean conscience so
that I can say to myself I spent time
with my kids I'm a good father so now I
deserve to relax because the thing that
tears me up more than anything is when I
want to play dota more than I want to
hang out with them and it would have
been easy cuz I could have played dota
if I was like you know if I was with
them does that make sense
but instead I'm talking to you
and that's worth it because if I don't
do it who will and this is the thing
like Jorah like the world is not gonna
fix itself just like you said it's a
bleak [ __ ] place man
and there's misinformation and like but
that's that's like a so buddy of mine
this is kind of random but you know
there's like a lot of like if anyone's
in the u.s. I don't know if you guys
like have been to the dentist but like
dentists make a lot of money and there's
like no price transparency in dentistry
this is gonna be kind of completely
random and so he decided that what he
was gonna do is like try to compare
dental prices so that people could like
understand what they're getting billed
for and understand what a dentist costs
do he ended up getting sued and shut
down because dentists didn't like that
they didn't like it that someone was
publishing how much they charge but he
was saying that people are just getting
[ __ ] ripped off
and he just started a website because
you can do that now you can do that yeah
and so Jorah what I want you to really
do so I want you to start tomorrow by
taking a walk and then I want you to
think about like concretely like there's
a problem of misinformation and try to
break it down to the smallest thing you
can like what is this
like what what about misinformation
we're gonna talk about it now for five
minutes like what can you do about
misinformation like what's the tiny
thing what's what's the misinformation
that bothers you the most
you
climate he
climate climate misinformation
yeah okay
so what are you gonna okay so like
are there websites out there like so
what do you how do you think we address
that
that's a tough one
informing okay okay this is what I want
you to do Jorah I think the other
problem here is that part of your
motivation is because you don't have
your environment or environment isn't
good I don't know who you spend your
time with so this is what I'd like you
to do after you go for a walk I want you
to look up organizations that are that
are fighting or advocating for climate
change like do a Google search and then
try to find like a dozen organizations
and see if any of them have do you have
any like programming skills or web
developing skills
oh yeah okay so what I want you to do is
is look at those organizations and reach
out like find which ones you like okay
and let me know if what I'm asking you
is getting too difficult because I'm
gonna ask you for more and more okay so
like let me know when I hit the limit do
and I want you to reach out to them and
say hey I have this concrete skill set
do you guys have any needs in this area
do you have a resume
uh yeah okay so update your resume make
it look good and then reach out to these
organizations and say hey do you guys
have any needs in in these skill set you
can contact HR or things like that
and then if you're lucky they'll pay you
but even if they don't make the world a
better place don't tell them you'll work
for free by the way
yeah see if they have any needed onward
yeah what do you think about that
sounds like a plan okay and what's
getting what's gonna [ __ ] over your plan
it's a very simple thing
interruptions and hope yeah
which interruption is the most important
to start absolutely
right so Joro I'm going to
luckily shame you
unless I get the following I want to
know where you've done where you are
with this so I'm expecting four messages
from you
the first is you're going for a walk the
second is your back
the third is you're gonna do your google
searches and the fourth is that you've
sent at least one contact we'll see how
far you get and you have what time is it
in Finland right now like midnight
thirty minutes until it's so you have 12
hours
can you do this in 12 hours
yes yes you can
so when are you gonna save the world in
the future no like stuff starts today
this is something that I want everyone
to understand action can only take place
in the present
like this is something that like once I
understood this it blew my [ __ ] mind
because I always tried to take actions
in the future and one day I woke up and
I realized you can't take actions in the
future it's impossible the only time
action can be taken is in the present
impossible
so you should sleep now if you can do
you have trouble sleeping
I have not narcolepsy but I got medicine
for it but do you have trouble falling
asleep
what sometimes puddin how about today
are you gonna have trouble falling
asleep today hopefully none okay you
guys want to do a meditation technique
around sleep
you
yeah okay we're gonna need we're gonna
need a Jorah to do something funny
though I need is that a bad behind you
yes I need you to lay down on the bed
and twitch at can you guys lay down
somewhere
if you guys can lay down somewhere
that's ideal
doin good Jorah
you
no no if you guys I'm not gonna put you
to sleep I'm gonna make you feel
energized and sort of put me to sleep
that's okay you could do it after you
wake if you just woke up can you hear me
Jorah
okay yeah okay so lay down so I want you
guys to lay down and
can you stretch your feet out completely
Joro so stretch your feet out put your
arms by your sides palms face up
let your ankles kind of fall to either
side
you
and I want you to feel the weight of
your bed I mean the body's sinking into
the bed
and I want you to notice that with each
breath your body lifts off of the bed
just a tiny bit
and with each exhalation you sink back
towards the bed
you
and with each exhalation I want you to
try to sink into the bed a little bit
more
you
imagine for a moment that the floor is
someone's opening the door only like
what the [ __ ] is going on oh there's
someone turn off the light okay
so with each breath
imagine almost like the floor beneath
you or the batter the couch is made of
mud and you're kind of like sinking into
it a little bit
you
with each breath just relax a little bit
more let your body fall into it
and now we're going to begin the
practice of yoga nidra
so I want you to take a deep breath in
and curl and tighten your toes curl Curl
Curl Curl Curl feel the tension the
energy and relax
take a deep breath in curl your toes and
then flex your ankles tighten your
ankles and toes together
both of them feel that tension and relax
thin curl your toes tighten your ankles
and then clench your calves clench
clench clench everything below the knee
and tighten and hold it and relax
deep breath in clench your toes your
ankles your calves and then lock your
knees lock both of your knees and
everything beneath them feel the tension
the warmth and relax
take a deep breath in curl your toes
tighten your ankles lock your knees and
then clench your thighs tighten your
thighs tighten your thighs and your
hamstrings and relax
deep breath in clench your toes ankles
calves knees thighs hamstrings and
clench your buttocks clench clench
clench clench clench and relax
deep breath in curl your toes ankles
calves knees quads hamstrings buttocks
and then make fists fists feel the
warmth the energy the heat in all of
your legs in your lower body in hands
and relaxed
we're going to just take one plain
breath breathe in and out
just notice the residual warmth
and now we'll begin again deep breath in
toes ankles calves knees hamstrings
quads buttocks fists and then twist your
forearms twist your Forum's twist twist
twist twist twist and relax
now we're going to go again deep breath
in toes ankles calves knees hamstrings
quads buttocks fists forearms and then
curl your biceps curl curl curl feel
that heat in that energy within you feel
it tighten tighten everything hold and
relax let your arms come back by your
sides
and we'll begin again deep breath in
toes ankles calves knees hamstrings
quads buttocks fists forearms biceps and
then cloud your abdomen clench your
abdomen clench clench clench clench
clench and out
breathe in toes ankles calves knees
quads hamstrings buttocks fists forearms
biceps abdomen and then chest curlier
Cheston curl and feel that tightness
that warmth that heat and relax
you
deep breath in toes ankles calves knees
legs buttocks fists forearms biceps
abdomen chest and then pull your back
end imagine that you have an egg that
you're trying to crack in the middle of
your back and flex your back tighten
your shoulders and out
we're going to take just plain breath
you
let yourself sink it back into the floor
two more
main breaths with relaxation
you
and now we'll begin again breathe in
toes ankles calves knees thighs buttocks
fists forearms biceps abdomen chest back
and now clench your jaw tighten your
forehead
clench your jaw tighten your forehead
feel the whole body contracting and
relax
you
and now we're going to do
final round so I want you to take a deep
breath in toes ankles calves knees legs
buttocks fists forearms biceps shoulders
abdomen chest back jaw forehead feel the
entire feel that wave of heat going
entirely through your body as your
muscles contract is they tighten you
feel that energy that warmth that power
and then let it all out relax
you
and now I want you to feel the person
that you are
this is you
notice the peace
yes
residual warmth
you
this is who you are
and though there may be negative
emotions within you there may be shame
there may be fear
there may be a feeling of powerlessness
all of these things are just a little
bit distant right now
and sit in the place that you are
and notice that you can come back here
when you need to
at while life or your internal
environment may be overwhelming
this places your birthright
you
and now let yourself start to come back
big deep breaths
exhalation
let your body reawaken
let your mind reawaken
you
slowly open your eyes
when you're ready come on back
you
what's he doing chat what's he doing
what do you guys see
what is he doing he looks sleepy he does
look sleepy but what do you see
yeah
have we seen that in the last hour and a
half
I don't think so
how do you feel Jorah
dude better yeah
you can do this man
you can do this
you
be that person that you were
moment ago that's the real you it's not
this [ __ ] who can't do anything in
life that's you he's calm centered
capable
peaceful important
not empty
all of heat
and power
that's what you are
but only if you do that first thing in
the morning right
off on the wrong foot if you walk past
those dishes and you open up reddit or
YouTube you're a piece of [ __ ]
you're allowed you're allowed to raid by
all means raid just not first thing in
the morning give yourself a few hours
take a walk eat something go do some
groceries clean
you
cleaning is okay cleaning is opie
absolutely right
and keep us posted
oh well alright questions
you
no good
good luck
correct
[Music]
twitch chat has faith in you my friend
as do I
people are wondering whether you raid
[Music]
discord if yeah whatever
okay Joro straw work today my friend
you can turn your life around you just
have to do it you just have to start
starts with dishes starts one step at a
time action is in the now okay good luck
and keep us prisoners in the now I'm
like a little hoping okay I have hope so
don't don't ruin my day tomorrow it
won't be misplaced that's what I like to
hear
listen to that
[ __ ] confidence that's good man
that's not the person I was talking to
you half an hour ago I'll take it good
for you buddy good luck thanks and save
save the world because I'm gonna be
[ __ ] streaming on Twitch and playing
dota so okay thanks a lot man good luck